[Edit] Python Built-in Functions: `input()` (#1161)
Codecademy/docs: content/python/concepts/built-in-functions/terms/input/input.md

  - 'paths/data-science'
---

> The **`input()`** built-in function prompts the user for data that is converted to and returned as a string. This function is unique in that the environment creates a field to allow users to enter the value. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`input()`** built-in function prompts the user for data that is converted to and returned as a string. This function is unique in that the environment creates a field to allow users to enter the value.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
input(prompt_string)
```
In Python 3, **`input()`** is used while **`raw_input()`** was used in Python 2.7 

> If a `prompt_string` is given, it is printed without a trailing newline. After the user types something and presses the <kbd>enter</kbd> key, the input is converted to and returned as a string. This function encourages flexibility, usability and personalization of set workflow. Cases in which these are used include webpages, desktop and console applications. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a `prompt_string` is given, it is printed without a trailing newline. After the user types something and presses the <kbd>enter</kbd> key, the input is converted to and returned as a string. This function encourages flexibility, usability and personalization of set workflow. Cases in which this is used include webpages, desktop and console applications. 
```

```pseudo
input(prompt_string)
```

> In Python 3, **`input()`** is used while **`raw_input()`** was used in Python 2.7 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

> **Note:** The `input()` function is the primary user input function for Python 3.x while the `raw_input()` function was used in Python 2.7, with support and updates discontinued since January 2020.
```

> If a `prompt_string` is given, it is printed without a trailing newline. After the user types something and presses the <kbd>enter</kbd> key, the input is converted to and returned as a string. This function encourages flexibility, usability and personalization of set workflow. Cases in which this is used include webpages, desktop and console applications. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a `prompt_string` is given, it is printed without a trailing newline. After the user types something and presses the <kbd>Enter</kbd> key, a string representation of the input is returned. This function encourages flexibility, usability and personalization of set workflow. Cases in which this is used include webpages, desktop, and console applications.
```

> ## Example 1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Example
```
